docs: Devspace integration proposal (#210)
getoutreach/devenv: docs/devspace-proposal/README.md

> # Development @ Outreach

Author: That's a whole different discussion though. Devenv works differently again for k3s. Most of the things are the same between KiND and loft. Other than building docker images, they are pretty much the same.

K3s + Codespaces would have more differences I assume given your starting point is already inside the K8s cluster there.

> # Development @ Outreach

Reviewer: Right but part of this entire effort was to figure out our path forward for cloud. If we optimize this for loft then we're committing to loft, at least in the short term, and need to make sure we're OK with that

> # Development @ Outreach

Author: I get that, but cloud seems to not be so important. I might be wrong though.

> # Development @ Outreach

Reviewer: I don't think it was that cloud wasn't important, but that the current cloud was too expensive, so we were to find a route that is cost-effective. We still have a plethora of issues on local machines that the cloud is solving, we can't forget about that pain. If we just stop supporting cloud, those all come back.

cc @deregtd

> # Development @ Outreach

Author: This proposal still counts on supporting loft.

> 

Reviewer 2: eventually we do want it the folder to be named `devspace`, is that right ?

The `proposal` makes it sense that it should be a confluence page.

Author: Usually we put those in google docs, but for some reason I have much less difficulty writing markdown. I can convert it to google doc as well.

Reviewer 2: lets just have single source of truth .. wherever that is !

We build a few kinds of applications today at Outreach. They tend to have different needs in terms of dev machine setup and actual code runtime. Instead of trying to provide once completely unified dev experience, we try to tailor the tooling for the task, and developer expectations.

This document is a high level overview of how we use `devenv` to build different kinds of applications.

## Bootstrap services

> Bootstrap microservices (overwhelming number of repos) run in Kubernetes in production and get their configuration from config maps and secrets. Instead of having local machine friendly way of configuring these, doing service discovery (for dependencies), we support running in Kubernetes during development as well.

Reviewer 3: i don't understand the last sentence of this paragraph

Author: Right now, we have special way to configure a service to run locally (the files in `~/.outreach/...`) which doesn't apply to running in Kubernetes. 

We also have special service discovery for running locally.

Author: With devspace, you won't run service locally anymore.

> Bootstrap microservices (overwhelming number of repos) run in Kubernetes in production and get their configuration from config maps and secrets. Instead of having local machine friendly way of configuring these, doing service discovery (for dependencies), we support running in Kubernetes during development as well.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bootstrap microservices (overwhelming number of repos) run in Kubernetes in production and get their configuration from config maps and secrets. This is opposed to the local machine friendly way of configuring these services which uses a different discovery mechanism for config. For service discovery in bootstrapped applications the same package is used which uses build tags to resolve to different endpoints, depending on the environment it the binary was built in.
```

Reviewer 3: Is that what you were getting at then?

Author: It took me longer to parse your version, but then I wrote the first one, so I'm biased.

Reviewer 3: yeah im probably adding to much information to mine. i dunno i just didn't understand what was originally being said

### Running in Kubernetes

`devenv` provides two deployment modes

> 1. pre-built service is useful for testing latest service from git main (or master in some cases) branch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. released version of the service via the latest pushed docker image into our image repository
```
isn't that more correct?

Reviewer 3: maybe also appending to that - using the deployment manifests from the remote source code repository that correspond to that same release

Author: sure, let's do that.

Author: Do we do that though? I thought we just grab the default branch and deploy using those manifests.

* builds an image from source in the `devenv` cluster
* uses the new built image in kubernetes manifests
* applies the manifests to `devenv` cluster

`devenv apps dev`

* builds `jsonnet` manifests
* applies the manifests to `devenv` cluster
* scales down deployment
* creates new pod in the devenv cluster, with the same labels, mounts, environment variables as the pods in deployment
* syncs source code from local machine to the new replacement pod
* opens terminal session into this replacement pod
* port forwards the service (on port 5000 for gRPC, on port 8080 for HTTP) and metrics server (on port 8000)

> source code keeps in sync with local machine

The dev pod has the tools and credentials necessary to install packages and run the service.

The same environment variables and mounts are available as well in order for the service to have the right configuration for running.

Developers can build and start the service, run tests, including e2e.

#### Performance

The development pods are not going to stay around forever and need to be recreated when manifests and Dockerfile change. With cloud devenv they also need to be recreated after the cluster goes to sleep.

> This leads to long time to ready/run in such a container. To avoid this, nightly build creates images with latest packages built in, Buildkit and dev pod share package cache, so devs don't have to redownload them all the time.

Reviewer 3: is this only a problem with the current runtime (loft)? also what does this do, if anything, for performance after the "first run" scenario (once code/deployment/image changes start rolling in)?

Author: Pre-built containers are a good thing cause they already bundle dependencies. So when you run for the first time, you don't have to go pull them again.

Author: It's less of a problem in KiND because there's only one node and caching works better.

Reviewer 3: what about other solns to the cloud runtime? like k3s+codespaces?

Author: You don't necessarily even need to build docker images there. You can set up that thing to behave as if it were a pod in the cluster. Secrets & config maps might need some love, but it's not an unsurmountable issue.

K3s+codespace is a fundamentally different solution to what we have now, cause your dev box is part of the kubernetes cluster in that scenario (like a node in the cluster).

Running things in docker has much less overhead than on mac. I assume some properties of that solution would be awesome, some would be not so great, but unless we go and build a service in such env, we won't know for sure.

Author: That was probably more general description than needed.

In k3s+codespace this would not be a problem cause the packages would be cached locally - pretty much the same way KiND does it. Except with KiND you have host machine and VM for docker (at least on mac). In codespace, you have just the codespace, so even less indirection.

> ## Client

Reviewer: Instead of talking about internal services, client, giraffe, flagship, etc. Distill these down into generic application 'profiles'.

2. Devenv, requires devenv, uses localizer to proxy requests through devenv cluster, still runs webpack dev server locally

### Reverse Proxy

The localizer proxy pod is replaced with reverse proxy built into devenv. In this mode, webpack dev server doesn't need to have certificates, `devenv` would take care of it.

The reverse proxy can be started as another process when starting webpack dev server for Standalone development.

> alternative would be to start webpack dev server through `devenv apps dev`. this would make it easier to update `/etc/hosts` file if necessary.

With a proxy running locally, there doesn't need to be a direct connection to cluster as the traffic from https://bento1a.outreach-dev.com/ is directeted by the reverse proxy.

## Flagship Server & Worker

Flagship runs in Kubernetes as well, but being a legacy codebase, built on Ruby on Rails, having more than one "mode" (server, worker, client), being rather large and having long history (meaning .git folder is BIG) presents special needs for runtime. We sync the local code into a container running in kubernetes with gems already built in.

## Giraffe

> Giraffe as a Node.js service needs as much performance from a dev machine as we can get. It takes a while to build. It's hard and expensive to match modern ARM Mac performance at building Javascript, and so the best tool available is used - developer's machine. Giraffe is built locally, and then synced to a container in Kubernetes. 

Reviewer: Can we define what "building" is here? Are we talking about just TS -> JS transpiling? Also would be good to talk about what the performance of syncing those build artifacts are.

Author: Giraffe has its build system. It's mostly TS->JS but more things can be involved. So to build giraffe here, means to run it's build ...

Reviewer: OK but it's good to spell that out because JS is not a compiled language so seeing "copy build artifacts" is a bit confusing without denoting that

Author: There are very few large JS projects without a build step today.
